Aren't in this lecture we're going to go ahead and do a character design and we're going to create this
character out of super simple geometric shapes just like we did in our last video lecture and then we're
going to take those shapes and turn them into organic shapes and then add detail on top of that.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So I'm going to start off by making a square from a character's head like so and then I want to make
a rectangle for his body or her body.
I'm not sure whether it's going to be a he or she.
And then I want to create the legs for my character.
So I want to first off create one character or rectangle like so and then I'll make a triangle coming
off like so for the calf and then I'll do the other leg.
So I'll do one rectangle like so and then another triangle like so and then I'm going to add in some
sort of a feat.
So maybe some sort of a small rectangle.
And next I'm going to go ahead and add in the arm.
So my arm is going to be like this.
And then a triangle.
And then we'll have another one on this side and it's going to be lugging along a sword.
So I'm going have a rectangle for the handle right there and then I'll have one big rectangle that will
be the sword blade.
But for now I'm just going to leave as one big rectangle.
So there are basic she's going to bring my square head down just a little bit to about there.
And this is why we do it in blue is so that it's a lot lighter so we can make changes later.
Next let's go ahead and add in some more details so I'm ad in the neck then.
Let's go ahead and smooth the shape out of the torso.
So it's not just a square block.
We'll add in some more detail onto the hands
and then we want to add more detail on the character's face.
So I'm going to start off by adding some years and then I'll add it you're over here and then I'm going
to round off the top of the head a bit just like so.
And I'm going to keep the bottom part very square then.
Let's go ahead and fatten this rectangle up a little bit more.
So it looks more like a laid and then I can bring her legs more up into her body shape then.
Let's go ahead and shape this sword blade out.
So it's going to come down like this.
The ground will be about.
They're going to slice it off right there and then I'll add another slice right there.
So now we're getting more of a sort of shape then I'm going to put a line right down the middle.
So that's one plain and then the other plain.
And then we can add in the guard on this sword great next.
Let's go ahead and add in a little bit more detail onto the face.
So an ad and I eyebrow there and one right there just very simple shapes.
And then I'm add some hair.
So I'm going to add in some bangs first and then I'm going to go ahead and add in some pigtails.
So that will be one bunch of hair going into one ponytail or pigtail and pigtails are basically just
going to be circles or ovals and then off of those you're going to add a little bit of a curl coming
off of it or curve just like so great.
Now let's go ahead and grab our dirt pencil and add in some more detail and solidify these lines.
So first off I'm going to go head and ground off my character by adding a shadow underneath her.
So I might add a little bit more and then I want to start with her face.
So I want to create this shape right there and I'm going to round off that job just a little bit since
she's a girl and then I'm going to go ahead and add in some eyelashes on to her eyes.
And then we can go ahead and add in her bottom eyelashes just like so.
And now I want to add in her eyes.
So I'm going to add in one right there and then add and another one right there.
And then I can go ahead and fill those in and leaving a small little spot for a row of reflection
and then I'm going to go ahead and do her nose.
So it's just going to be a small little circle oval like so then her mouth is just going to be a small
little line.
Now let's go ahead and move on to the eyebrows.
And then we can go ahead and do her hair.
So she's going to be a simple half circle will some lines in there to show each individual hair.
So there are her bangs.
And now let's go ahead and add these pigtails.
So the first one is going to go right here.
Now we can go ahead and add in that you're And again I'm not trying to make it perfect character right
now.
I'm just trying to demonstrate to you guys how shapes are used to create characters.
Go ahead and add a circle right there.
And those hairlines
and even these hairlines or cross contouring lines and then I had a little bit of a blush on her cheeks
maybe a little bit across her nose too.
And then I'm a go ahead and add in her neck and then I'll go ahead and add in her body.
And I'm trying to think of what type of costume I want her to be wearing.
I think she's going to be wearing a big sweatshirt.
So I'm going to go ahead and add that in.
So there's her neckline and then there's the bottom of her sweatshirt.
There's the band on her sweatshirt and then it's going to come up into her sleeves which are going to
be really big and puffy like so I'll have another one right there.
And then they'll be a band on the arms or the wrists and we'll have her hands that are holding the sword.
Then let's go ahead and draw in the sword garb.
So add that in there.
And then we have the shape of our blade.
So we'll go ahead and draw that in.
And whoops I got that off just a little bit.
So I need to fix that and then I'm gonna go ahead and Durkan in this bottom area.
Since it's probably in shadow and then let's go ahead and add in her pants.
So go ahead and darken those lines.
Very simple straight lines.
And then I'm going to add in a little bit more of a calf in there by popping out that back a little
bit more.
And then her feet are going to be really simple.
I'm not going to get into too much detail with her shoes.
We're just going to be very small.
So you'll also notice that there's a lot of different line quality in here especially on the eyes and
her eyebrows they have different thicknesses and different parts of her hair can have different line
quality.
Also we can also go ahead and trace out the entire outside sheath of her which would be her contouring
lines which goes all the way around her forearm.
This will make her stand out a lot more
and you'll see this lying cartoons where the outline the entire outside of a character.
Especially on this sword.
We wanted to stand out a lot
and then we can even add in some values in there.
Which you'll learn about here in the next few lectures.
But for now let's just go ahead and fill those in.
So we have a couple of different values in our drawing
that I might add some cross country lines right there.
And you'll notice that my cross country lines on my sleeve and the form of my torso are going in different
directions because they're creating that form of her body and arm.
Then lastly I'm going to go ahead and Durkan in her feet to a nice black.
All right cool.
So now we have a really awesome character design.
And as you can see these are just broken down into very simple shapes.
And then we built it up from there.
So every time you're trying to create a character design just go with your ideas.
And once you have an idea in mind it's tried drawing it with these simple shapes before you do anything
else.
This is going to make your character designs look way way better.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
I really hope you learn something from this.
And I really look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.
We're we're going to learn about form.